All right here's an example of let us practice the junction rule and again the junction rule says whatever
flows into a junction and the current has to be the same current flowing out of the junction.
So let's begin by identifying all the various junctions here and the goal here is to determine what
this current AI is all the way over here and this lower right hand branch.
So we've got different junctions.
There's one one call that a label this one be see D and E.
And what we're going to do is we're going to apply the junction rule to each one of those.
Now the reason you can't just immediately go to junction E and write down my junction rule.
Well basically what you're going to be left with are two unknowns and only one equation is actually
where we're going to do is we're just going to work over here from Junction and work our way down all
the way to junction E..
OK so let's practice.
So for junction a how do we apply Kirchoff's current law.
So again what flows into the junction.
Well let's look at it there's two currents flowing in.
So that automatically tells us that whatever current is is at junction a must be flowing out because
you can have three currents all flowing into a junction.
You wouldn't be able to conserve the charge if that was the case.
So let's go ahead and find whatever the current this is again.
Kirchhoff's current law says current flowing in there is a 1 amp from the top flowing in two amps from
the left hand side flowing in.
That must be equal to the current flowing out which must be equal to 3 amps.
So this current over here must be 3 amps junction B is very very similar.
We have two currents flowing in it automatically tells us that the third current must be flowing out.
Let's go ahead and calculate that one square junction B again what's flowing in we just saw there was
3 amps flowing in from the top.
We have 5 amps flowing in from the left hand side that must be what's flowing out of junction B which
is 8 amps.
All right.
Put that on the diagram so you have eight amps along this entire branch of the circuit.
All right let me look at junction and see what's going on.
Junction sees a little bit different.
You're told that there's two amps flowing in from the left hand side or from the right hand side.
And while I look at there's also three amps everywhere and this branch right here although they've only
indicated the value of the current up here.
It's also the same current right here.
This is three.
So let's have a look.
So which direction should the current in this branch over here be directed.
Well if you have two going in you probably know that you probably are going to need another current
flowing in if you have three going out.
Let's call this the current.
I see if you apply the junction rule to junction c you're going to find that you have to plus the current
icy must be equal to 3.
So the current I see must be equal to 1.
Put that one on the diagram and that makes sense right.
You got two plus one gives me three.
All right.
And now that we have this information we can now solve what's going on at Junction D.
If we have 8 going in and you have one going toward the top automatically you should be able to see
that this current And this branch right here has to be flowing down and if I call this just the current
I let's apply the junction rule over here at Junction D which you find is whatever current flowing in
is 8 amps.
This must be equal to the current flowing out.
This must be one plus the current I which is what I was trying to solve for.
So the current.
I must be equal to 70 amps and we know the direction that's clear.
We can actually also find what's going on over here in this branch to the right of junction.
We know we have seven going in and we're told that there is six amps going down.
So that tells us right away that we have to have.
I'm not even going to write down the law.
Now you could just write it down just by inspection.
You have to have one amp going this way.
This way we have seven going in the total current leaving the junction also has to be 70 amps OK.
So here is kind of a nice simple example of applying the junction rule several times define the direction
of the current.